据分析公司Wood Mackenzie称，到2030年，日本将在风能和太阳能发电领域投资逾1000亿美元。在其最新的《战略能源计划》中，该国的目标是22%-24%的电力来自可再生能源。然而，这一新的投资率将推动可再生能源发电量达到27%。2019年，该国19％的电力来自可再生能源，其中8％来自风能和太阳能。Wood Mackenzie预计太阳能和风能的发电成本将下降30％以上。尽管如此，研究主管亚历克斯·惠特沃思（Alex Whitworth）认为，到2030年以后，煤炭仍将是该国最便宜的发电方式。他表示：“未来十年将是一个平衡的过程，在保持终端用户电价稳定的同时，管理可再生能源的增长，以实现环境和能源安全目标。”“幸运的是，由于冠状病毒大流行和油价暴跌，今年日本的电力供应成本下降了15％以上。这对日本来说是一个福音，可以帮助日本在2030年之前将风能和太阳能在发电中所占的份额提高一倍以上，达到18%，同时不会给消费者的电费账单带来上行压力。”同时，日本还将投资其氢能产业，今年氢能产业将超过400万吨。Wood Mackenzie表示，尽管许多国家计划使用氢来脱碳，但日本主要使用氢来去除排放物中的硫和杂质。近90%的氢气是由炼油厂生产的，造成大量排放。。伍德·麦肯齐研究总监Prakash Sharma说：“日本的氢燃料电池汽车目标似乎难以在时间表内实现。成本是最大的挑战，因为目前绿色氢的成本是化石燃料氢的2-4倍。“尽管如此，将重点放在氢燃料的采用是完全合理的，因为日本在减少非能源碳排放方面没有多少其他选择。”“日本的目标是到2030年将其绿色氢气价格降低至3美元/千克。这将要求可再生电力的平准化成本降至50美元/兆瓦时以下，与目前对国内太阳能和风电厂的预测相比，还要再降低37％。因此，我们希望日本采取所有选择来寻找清洁氢能，包括进口绿色和蓝色氢气。”在Covid-19大流行期间的低电力需求近几个月来，日本在Covid-19大流行期间利用了能源需求减少的优势。GlobalData分析师发现，日本将放弃燃煤发电，目前日本约有三分之一的电力来自燃煤发电。GlobalData预计，到2030年，煤炭将占该国总发电量的26％。日本政府将淘汰所有低效率的燃煤电厂，只留下10%的现有电厂来生产占全国四分之一以上的能源。在政府的政策受到批评后，日本也承诺停止支持外国煤炭项目。在2011年福岛核事故发生后，日本还推动停止了国内所有的核能发电。惠特沃思说：“就在最近宣布加速淘汰燃煤发电之前，日本已经有一条明确的道路实现其2030年可再生能源发电目标。需求预期的降低与可再生能源成本的下降同步，加速了日本对化石燃料的依赖。”另外，东京电力公司（TEPCO）宣布了计划在2035年之前向海上风电和水力发电领域投资至多184亿美元（20亿日元）。原文阅读：Japan will invest more than $100bn in wind and solar generation before 2030, according to analyst firm Wood Mackenzie.In its most recent Strategic Energy Plan, the country aimed to generate 22%-24% of its electricity from renewable sources. However, this new rate of investment would push its renewable generation to 27%.In 2019, the country generated 19% of its power from renewable sources, with 8% coming from wind and solar.Wood Mackenzie expects generation costs for solar and wind to fall by over 30%. Despite this, research director Alex Whitworth believes coal will still be the cheapest method of power generation available to the country until beyond 2030.He said: “The next decade will be a balancing act to manage the growth of renewables to reach environmental and energy security goals while keeping end-user power tariffs stable.“Fortunately, power supply costs in Japan have dropped by over 15% this year due to the coronavirus pandemic and oil price crash. This is a boon for Japan and should help the country more than double the share of wind and solar in the generation mix to 18% by 2030, without putting upward pressure on consumer power bills.”Japan moves to decarbonise its hydrogen sourcesAt the same time, Japan will also invest in its hydrogen industry, which will produce more than four million tons this year.While many countries plan to use hydrogen to decarbonise, Wood Mackenzie says that Japan mainly uses hydrogen for removing sulphur and impurities from emissions. Almost 90% of the hydrogen is produced in refineries, causing significant emissions.Wood Mackenzie research director Prakash Sharma said: “Japan’s hydrogen fuel cell vehicle targets seem challenging to achieve in the timeframe. Cost is the biggest challenge, because green hydrogen currently costs 2-4 times more than fossil-fuel hydrogen.“The focus on hydrogen adoption makes perfect sense though, because Japan has very few other options to reduce its non-power carbon emissions.”“Japan aims to lower its green hydrogen price to $3/kg by 2030. This would require the levelised cost of renewable electricity to fall under $50/MWh, an additional 37% reduction from the current forecast for domestic solar and wind plants. As a result, we expect Japan to pursue all options to procure clean hydrogen, including import of green and blue hydrogen.”Making use of low power demand during the Covid-19 pandemicIn recent months, Japan has moved to take advantage of a decreased energy demand during the Covid-19 pandemic. GlobalData analysts found that the country will move away from coal-based generation, which currently powers approximately one-third of all Japanese power.By 2030, GlobalData expects coal to generate a 26% share of the country’s power. The Japanese Government will retire all low-efficiency coal plants, leaving only 10% of its existing plants to generate more than a quarter of the country’s energy. Japan has also pledged to stop supporting foreign coal projects after criticism of the government’s policy.Japan has also pushed to end all nuclear generation in the country following the Fukushima disaster in 2011.Whitworth said: “Even before recent announcements looking to accelerate retirements of coal power, Japan had a clear pathway to meet its 2030 renewable power target. Lower demand expectations are now aligning with falling renewables costs to accelerate Japan’s shift away from fossil fuels.”Separately, Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) has announced plans to invest up to $18.4bn (JPY2tn) in offshore wind and hydroelectric power before 2035.