||中国石化新闻网讯 据石油新闻2020年8月31日新加坡报道，随着航运业向脱碳方向发展，日本三菱重工集团旗下的三菱造船有限公司时下正与日本航运公司川崎汽船有限公司和船级社日本海事协会一起推进一个旨在对小规模船基二氧化碳捕获示范厂进行试运行和测量的项目.2018年4月，国际海事组织（IMO）宣布了其改善航运中二氧化碳效率的温室气体战略和目标。IMO设定了到2050年前航运业温室气体排放量比2008年减少50%的目标。三菱造船有限公司在8月31日的一份声明中表示，这个名为“海洋碳捕获”的项目打算实现全球首个海上二氧化碳捕获。声明说，作为其海洋资源开发技术进步研究和开发援助项目的一部分，这个项目得到了日本国土、基础设施、交通和旅游省旗下的海事局的支持。这个示范厂将在2021年年中投产，在示范厂运行测试以后将安装在由川崎汽船有限公司运营的东北电力公司的一艘运煤船上。三菱造船有限公司表示，通过在实际海洋环境下的运行和性能确认，三菱造船有限公司将确定作为海洋设备的系统规范要求，并将考虑如何使工厂更紧凑。声明说，此外，捕获的二氧化碳可以回收利用，作为一种新的二氧化碳来源，用于加强石油回收过程，或作为合成燃料的原材料，为减少温室气体排放做出重大贡献。李峻 编译自 石油新闻原文如下：Japanese companies advance plans for world's first marine based carbon capture systemMitsubishi Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., a part of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Group, is advancing a project with shipping company "K" Line and classification society Nippon Kaiji Kyokai to conduct test operations and measurements for a small scale ship-based CO2 capture demonstration plant as shipping progresses toward decarbonization.In April 2018, the International Maritime Organization announced its greenhouse gas strategy and targets to improve CO2 efficiency in shipping. The IMO has set targets that include a 50% cut in the shipping sector's GHG emissions by 2050 compared with 2008.The project -- Carbon Capture on the Ocean -- is intended to achieve CO2 capture at sea, a world first, Mitsubishi Shipbuilding said in a statement on Aug. 31.The project is being conducted with support from the Maritime Bureau of Japan's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, or MLIT, as part of its assistance project for research and development of technological advancements in marine resource development, it said.The demonstration plant will be manufactured in mid-2021, and following operational tests at the factory, will be installed on board a coal carrier for Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. operated by "K" Line, it added.Through an operational and performance confirmation in an actual marine environment, Mitsubishi Shipbuilding will then determine the system specification requirements as a marine-based device and will also consider how to make the plant more compact, it said.Further, the captured CO2 can be recycled for use as a new source of CO2 for enhanced oil recovery processes, or as raw material in synthetic fuel, providing a significant contribution to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, it added.