中国石化新闻网讯 据中东石油12月5日消息称，沙特能源巨头沙特阿美周六宣布，已与法国公司就多个项目签署了五项协议。这些协议包括沙特阿美和法国可再生能源技术公司 Gaussin 宣布在沙特阿拉伯建立一个现代制造工厂，专注于公路和越野氢动力汽车。在一份声明中，两家公司宣布，沙特阿美的先进创新中心(LAB7)将与Gaussin的氢动力汽车和远程控制/自动氢赛车开发密切合作。此外，沙特阿美还将在2022年沙特阿拉伯达喀尔拉力赛上赞助世界上第一辆氢燃料赛车。这种卡车是由Gaussin发明的。协议的签署是在吉达由沙特投资部组织的一次活动中进行的。与会人员包括沙特投资部部长Khalid Al Falih、法国对外贸易和经济吸引力部长代表Franck Riester以及沙特阿美总裁兼首席执行官Amin Nasser。Nasser在声明中说：“此次合作是沙特阿美与许多法国领先公司长期合作关系的延续。它代表着一个推动氢作为低碳解决方案的机会，不仅适用于赛车，最终也适用于大众交通。”他补充说：“作为 Namaat 工业投资计划的一部分，这种合作帮助我们推动了王国的经济增长，并使我们更接近于我们对更可持续未来的共同愿景。”曹海斌 摘译自 中东石油原文如下：Saudi Aramco signs agreements with five French firms on hydrogen, CCS and moreSaudi Arabian energy giant Aramco announced Saturday that it had signed five agreements with French companies on a variety of projects.The agreements included an announcement between Aramco and French renewable energy technology firm Gaussin to establish a modern manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia focused on on-road and off-road hydrogen powered vehicles.In a statement, the two companies announced that Aramco’s Advanced Innovation Center (LAB7) would be working closely with Gaussin’s hydrogen-powered vehicle and remote controlled/autonomous hydrogen racing truck developments. In addition, Aramco will also sponsor the world’s first hydrogen-fueled racing truck at the 2022 Dakar Rally in Saudi Arabia. The truck was developed by Gaussin.The signing of the agreements took place in Jeddah at an event organised by the Saudi Ministry of Investment. Attendants included Saudi Minister of Investment Khalid Al Falih, Minister Delegate for Foreign Trade and Economic Attractiveness of France Franck Riester, and Aramco President and CEO Amin Nasser.“This partnership is a continuation of Aramco’s long-standing relationship with a number of leading French companies. It represents an opportunity to promote hydrogen as a low-carbon solution, not just for motorsport, but eventually for mass transportation as well,” Nasser said in the statement.“Such collaboration helps us to advance economic growth in the Kingdom as part of the Namaat industrial investment program and takes us a step closer to our shared vision of a more sustainable future,” he added.