爱语导读:星期二，中国国家主席习近平在开启他对沙特阿拉伯为期两天的访问时，同沙特国家领导人宣布两国欢迎中国—海合会（GCC）自由贸易区谈判取得的进展，并且同意尽早建立自由贸区。Chinese President Xi Jinping Tuesday announced with his Saudi host that the two countries welcome the progress made in China-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) free trade area negotiation, and agreed to establish the free trade area as early as possible as he started his two-day visit to Saudi Arabia.星期二，中国国家主席习近平在开启他对沙特阿拉伯为期两天的访问时，同沙特国家领导人宣布两国欢迎中国—海合会（GCC）自由贸易区谈判取得的进展，并且同意尽早建立自由贸易区。Xi on Tuesday met with King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. The two leaders announced that China and Saudi Arabia are to lift bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership.星期二，习近平会见了沙特阿拉伯国王萨勒曼·本·阿卜杜勒－阿齐兹·阿勒沙特。两国元首宣布中国将同沙特阿拉伯推动双边关系进入全面战略伙伴关系。They also pledged to resolutely oppose terrorism in any form that threatens world peace and stability, vowing to strengthen security cooperation.双方还承诺坚定不移地反对以任何形式威胁世界和平稳定的恐怖主义，宣布要加强安全合作。"We are against linking terrorism with any religion or religious sect," the two countries announced in a joint statement signed as Xi is visiting the kingdom.“我们反对将恐怖主义与任何宗教或宗教派别联系在一起”，这份习近平访问沙特时签署的两国共同声明写道。Wu Yihong, an expert on the Middle East, told the Global Times that another main focus of Xi’s Saudi trip will be upgrading China’s and Saudi Arabia’s energy cooperation, which is at the center of the two countries’ economic ties.中东问题专家吴艺红告诉《环球时报》，习近平访沙的另一个主要关注点是提高中沙之间的能源合作，这是两国经济关系的中心。"Saudi Arabia has a strong demand for solar and nuclear energy, while China has both technological and capacity advantages in these two fields. China could use such advantages to help Saudi Arabia develop renewable resources that fit the country’s situation, as well as make good use of its overcapacity," Li Shaoxian, director of the China-Arab Research Institute at Ningxia University, told the Global Times.“沙特阿拉伯对太阳能和核能有着强烈的需求，而中国在这两个领域有科技和性能优势。中国可以用这些优势帮助沙特阿拉伯发展适应该国国情的新能源，同时充分利用其过剩产能。”宁夏大学中阿研究学院主任李绍先告诉《环球时报》。Saudi Arabia is China’s biggest global supplier of crude oil and its biggest trading partner in West Asia and Africa, as well as a heavyweight among Gulf monarchies. In 2013, China became the biggest trading partner of Saudi Arabia for the first time.沙特阿拉伯是中国的最大原油供应商，也是中国在西亚和非洲的最大贸易伙伴，同时是海湾地区的重量级君主国。2013年，中国首次成为沙特阿拉伯的最大贸易伙伴。Two-way trade reached $69.1 billion in 2014, 230 times more than at the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1990. Today, one in six barrels of the crude oil China imports comes from Saudi Arabia.2014年，双方贸易达六百九十一亿美元，比1990年两国建交时多达230倍。今天，中国每进口六桶原油就有一桶来自沙特阿拉伯。Analysts said the upgrade is driven by China’s weaker-than-expected crude oil demand and Saudi Arabia’s desire to diversify its economy.分析人士称，这次合作升级是由中国的原油需求疲软推动的，而沙特阿拉伯则希望能使其经济多样化。China’s demand for crude oil will continue to shrink in the future, despite its current status as the world’s biggest crude oil buyer. This is caused by the country’s economic slowdown as well as its target to curb carbon emissions, Wu said.尽管现在中国仍然是世界第一大原油购买国，未来，中国对于原油的需求将持续萎缩。这是因为中国的经济下滑并且国家致力于遏制碳排放，吴艺红说。"Saudi Arabia is also aware of the trend, so upgrading energy ties has become necessary to ensure that bilateral energy cooperation will not be affected in the post-crude oil era," Wu said.吴艺红说，“沙特阿拉伯已经认识到这一趋势，所以深化能源关系对于保障两国能源合作不在后原油时代受到影响是必要的。”Saudi Arabia said in its 10th five-year development plan (2015-19) that it plans to enhance economic diversification by developing production and service activities related to oil industry, investing in projects related to the diversification of energy sources as well as developing the services sector, such as finance, tourism, and IT.沙特阿拉伯在其第十个五年发展计划（2015-19）里写道，沙特计划通过开发石油行业相关的生产和服务活动，投资多元化能源相关的项目，发展金融、旅游和信息类服务业以提高经济多样化。The two countries should build a long-term, stable China-Saudi Arabia community of energy cooperation as well as prioritize the peaceful use of nuclear energy and renewable energy, in an effort to enrich practical cooperation, Xi said in an article published in Saudi newspaper Al Riyadh on Monday.两国应该构建长期稳定的中沙能源战略合作关系，并优先利用核能和可再生能源以丰富务实合作，习近平周一在一篇发表在沙特报纸Al Riyadh中说道。China and Saudi Arabia could also deepen their cooperation in oil-related industries such as oil exploitation and refining, by offering Saudi Arabia necessary equipment as well as technologies, Liu Zhongmin, a professor at the Middle East Studies Institute of Shanghai International Studies University, told the Global Times.中国和沙特阿拉伯也应该加深在石油相关行业中的合作，比如通过向沙特阿拉伯提供器材和技术展开石油开发与精炼，上海外国语大学中东研究学院教授刘忠民告诉《环球时报》。Xi’s visit also seeks to enhance cooperation with Saudi in infrastructure and investment.习近平的访问还将寻求与沙特扩大基础设施建设和投资的合作。Increasing funds allocated for infrastructure projects and directing national and foreign investments toward high technology content and high value-added sectors have become the country’s priority in the next four years in Saudi Arabia, according to Saudi’s development plan.根据沙特的发展计划，增加基础设施建设项目资金，并指导国内外投资用于高技术含量和高附加值产业，成为该国在未来四年中的优先考虑。"China can build ports for Saudi Arabia, since it’s near the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea. Meanwhile, six GCC countries are planning to build high-speed railways to connect each other, which may require China’s experience," Liu said.“中国可以为沙特建立港口，因为沙特靠近波斯海湾和红海。同时，6个中国—海合会国家计划修建连通各国的高铁铁路，这将需要中国的经验，”刘忠民说。（声明：文为爱语吧原创翻译，转载请注明来源，否则追究法律责任！）来源:Global Times【对于学习，从现在开始，你还没有晚。别说自己没基础，慢慢来；你不懂？问我吧！——订阅微信公众号：爱语吧BBC（iyubabbc】返回搜狐，查看更多责任编辑：