中国石化新闻网讯 据ZAWYA网吉达1月22日消息 沙特阿美石油公司(Saudi Aramco)周一与迪拜水电局(DEWA)签署了一份谅解备忘录，以促进电力供需管理方面的合作。 谅解备忘录还将提供一个框架，以评估在新能源和智能电网应用、数字化转型和卓越运营方面的潜在合作和风险。 沙特阿美公司动力系统副总裁Abdulkarim Al-Ghamdi表示：“我们期待与DEWA的合作，因为这是我们实现共同目标的重要一步，目的是在我们的业务范围内发现部署新能源、智能电网和数字应用的新机遇。通过这种伙伴关系，我们正在寻求经验和最佳实践的交流，这将有助于双方利用技术解决方案，加速业务增长，并推动能源领域的创新。” 他补充称:“备忘录将有助我们应用有效技术，提高运作效率，从而推动能源行业的数码转型。与DEWA的合作将补充沙特阿美正在进行的能源和技术举措。” DEWA的首席执行官Saeed Mohammed Al-Tayer表示，此谅解备忘录支持阿拉伯酋长国和沙特王国的明智领导愿景，并有助于实现集成所有重要领域通过共同努力。通过共同努力支持国家和地区目标和共同利益，预测未来并采用创新，有助于实现所有重要部门的一体化。与沙特阿美的合作，支持该地区加强能源、水、智能转型、智能电网、能源效率和可持续发展领域。 沙特阿美正在部署智能控制系统，作为目前正在建设的智能电力中心的一部分。该中心旨在通过实施最新的实时电力管理技术，提高发电、输电、配电和资产管理的有效性。 吴慧丹 摘译自 ZAWYA 原文如下： Saudi Aramco, Dubai DEWA sign MoU to foster collaboration in new energy Saudi Aramco signed on Monday a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Dubai Electricity & Water Authority (DEWA) to foster collaboration in power supply and demand management. The MoU will also provide a framework to assess potential collaborations and ventures in new energy and smart grid applications, digital transformation, and operational excellence. “We look forward to our partnership with DEWA as it is an important step to achieve our shared objectives and goals that aim at identifying new opportunities within our business for deployment of new energy, smart grid and digital applications. Through this partnership, we are pursuing an exchange of experiences and best practices that will help both parties to leverage technology solutions and accelerate business growth and drive innovation in the energy sector”. “The MoU will help our efforts in digital transformation in the energy industry by applying effective technologies to enable operational efficiencies. The collaboration with DEWA will complement Saudi Aramco’s ongoing energy and technology initiatives”, said Saudi Aramco VP Power Systems, Abdulkarim Al-Ghamdi. “This MoU supports the vision of the wise leadership in both the United Arab Emirates and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and contributes to achieving integration across all vital sectors through joint efforts to support national and regional goals and common interests, anticipate the future and adopt innovation to enhance sustainability of development. The collaboration with Saudi Aramco supports regional efforts to enhance the energy, water, smart transformation, smart grids, energy efficiency and sustainability sectors”, said Saeed Mohammed Al-Tayer, MD & CEO of DEWA. Saudi Aramco is deploying smart control systems as part of the intelligent power center currently under construction. The center aims to enhance the effectiveness of power generation, transmission, distribution, and asset management through the implementation of latest real-time power management technologies.未经允许，不得转载本站任何文章：