Hi, everybody. I'm here at Children's National Medical Center in Washington,D.C., visiting with some kids being treated here all the time forasthma（哮喘）and other breathing problems. Often, these illnesses areaggravated（加重，恶化）by air pollution-pollution from the same sources that releasecarbon and contribute to climate change. And for the sake of all our kids,we've got to do more to reduce it.Earlier this month, hundreds of scientists declared that climate change is nolonger a distant threat-it "has moved firmly into the present." Its costs can bemeasured in lost lives and livelihoods, lost homes and businesses; and higherprices for food, insurance, and rebuilding.That's why, last year, I put forward America's first climate action plan. Thisplan cuts carbon pollution by building a clean energy economy-using moreclean energy, less dirty energy, and wasting less energy throughout oureconomy.One of the best things we can do for our economy, our health, and ourenvironment is to lead the world in producing cleaner, safer energy-and we'realready generating more clean energy than ever before. Thanks in part to theinvestments we made in the Recovery Act, the electricity America generatesfrom wind has tripled. And from the sun, it's increased more than tenfold.In fact, every four minutes, another American home or business goes solar-and every panel is pounded into place by a worker whose job cannot beshipped overseas. We're wasting less energy, too. We've doubled how far ourcars and trucks will go on a gallon of gas by the middle of the next decade,saving you money at the pump-and we're helping families and businessessave billions with more efficient homes, buildings, and appliances.This strategy has created jobs, grown our economy, and helped makeAmerica more energy independent than we've been in decades-all whileholding our carbon emissions to levels not seen in about 20 years. It's a goodstart. But for the sake of our children, we have to do more.This week, we will.Today, about 40% of America's carbon pollution comes from power plants.But right now, there are no national limits to the amount of carbon pollutionthat existing plants can pump into the air we breathe. None.We limit the amount of toxic chemicals like mercury, sulfur, and arsenic thatpower plants put in our air and water. But they can dump unlimited amounts